# Using Visual Analytics to Reduce Churn

The  technology  advance  and  the  use  of  data  for  decision-making drive business and increase competitiveness among companies. They  must  understand  the  environment  in  which  they  operate,  and quickly respond to the needs of their customers, preventing them from canceling their services, maximizing profit, and benefit their own organizations.  The  main  goal  of  this  work  is  to  present  a  visual  analytics approach  to  deal  with  a  large  amount  of  unstructured,  complex,  and dynamic data and improve companies ability to detect the probability of losing a customer at an early stage. We processed the probability of subscription cancellation using the machine learning algorithm Random Forest and we allowed similar customers comparison using the k-nearest neighbor’s algorithm. Then, we developed two main visualizations: a general dashboard that displays the probability of subscription cancellation of each client and the variables that can influence this decision; and a radar chart that displays many quantitative variables and allows comparison with other similar customers. To validate our approach we present a case study with a data set from a hosting services company that uses the Platform as a Service (PaaS) model. Through the application of informal interviews, we concluded that the visualizations available in our approach helped teams in the process of reducing churn rate and therefore maintaining a growing customer base’s company. They allowed the analysis  and  information  understanding  to  create  strategies  and  make assertive decisions for professionals involved in the retention process.

# Citation

Please, refer to this work by citing:
Priscilla A. Karolczak and Isabel H. Manssour. Using Visual Analytics to Reduce Churn.
